## Introduction to Git

This Learning Lab provides a brief introduction to the Git revision-control system. You will learn Git basics: how to download code from a public repository and how to upload your changes.

## Objectives

Completion time: 15 minutes

* Understand the basic concepts of Git and Git-based services such as
  GitHub.
* Download a sample source-code project from a Github repository to
  your computer using Git command-line tools.

## Prerequisites

To complete this lab you'll need the Git tools, which are freely available from [the Git home page](https://git-scm.com/). In Step 1 of this Learning Lab we ensure that Git is installed on your system.

## About Git

[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is a distributed version-control system. It's a set of tools that you can use to track and manage
files through a complete lifecycle of changes and revisions, without losing any changes along the way. The fact that it's a **distributed**
system means that it supports any number of authors working collaboratively, tracking and organizing all their changes, even when they work independently and on different systems, or even in different countries. Git provides tools that can merge changes from many authors without losing or overwriting anyone's contributions.

Git is currently the most popular distributed version-control system. It supports development projects of all sizes. The Linux kernel team, which is one of the largest open-source software projects in the world, uses Git to manage its codebase.

## GitHub

You can use Git by itself to manage source-code projects on your local machine, or across several machines. Teams of developers more often use a **repository-hosting service** like [GitHub](https://github.com/) or [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/).

A **repository-hosting service** provides storage for project files and makes them accessible on the Internet using distributed revision-control tools like Git. You could do all of that yourself using only the tools that come with Git, but hosting services automate those tasks for you and also provide additional features like issue-tracking databases, wiki pages, analytics, and client software like GitHub Desktop.

The most popular repository-hosting service is [GitHub](https://github.com/). GitHub supports tens of millions of repositories and users.

The Cisco DevNet and Spark teams use GitHub extensively to collaborate with developers around the world and to make code and documentation freely available to anyone using Git.

The Learning Lab you're reading right now is published on GitHub.

### Git Concepts

Git is a power tool with many features to learn. For common uses like getting a software project from GitHub or sending changes to the repository, a short list of concepts is all you need:

* **Repository**:  
  A **repository** is a directory that stores files belonging to a project. A repository (also called a repo) includes the Git database that tracks and preserves changes. A repo can be stored on your local system or on a remote host.

* **Clone**:  
  A **clone** is a copy of a repository. Git provides features and commands to keep the clone in sync with the original, even when the clone and the original are being changed at the same time by different people.

* **Branch**:  
  A **branch** in Git is a pointer to a set of commits (changes).
  
  When creating a repo, Git automatically creates a single branch
  named "master". If you do nothing to create additional branches or
  to switch branches, then all your changes will be
  recorded on the "master" branch.  
  
  On the other hand, you're free to create as many additional branches
  as you like.  
  
  Many small teams working with Git use branches to separate work being done
  by different people, or to separate different tasks being performed
  by the same person. A typical workflow is to start a task by
  creating a branch, save all changes to the new **feature branch**,
  and then, when the task is complete, to **merge** the feature branch
  back into the original starting branch. At that point
  the **feature branch** ceases to exist, except in the repo's history.

* **Merge**:  
  A **merge** is the process of integrating all the changes from one
  branch into another. If you merge branch "B" into branch "A", then branch "B"
  ceases to exist, and branch "A" contains the changes that were
  formerly in branch "B".
  
  The merged branch is not completely gone; it still exists in the
  repo's history. Its lifecycle ends when you merge it.  

* **Push and Pull**:  
  A **push** copies changes from your local repo to a remote repo. 

  A **pull** does the opposite: it copies changes made to a remote to a local repo.  
  
  Git can perform a push or a pull automatically, merging
  changes with no help from you. After performing a pull, your local repo
  contains any new changes that others may have made to the remote
  repo. After a push, the remote repo contains changes that had been made locally.  

  Occasionally, though, Git will be unable to merge the changes,
  usually because more than one person has changed the same lines in a file, and
  Git can't tell which changes to keep and which to discard. In that
  case you will have to go through the affected file by hand to resolve the conflicts.  
  
  Resolving **merge conflicts** is beyond the scope of this Learning
  Lab. For more information about the subject, see "Basic Branching
  and Merging" in [Pro
  Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging).

### Git Commands

Git provides many commands and options that offer fine-grained control of every aspect of a project repository, but, again, for common uses you need only a few simple commands:

* **clone**  

  Creates a local copy of a remote Git repo.  
  
  `git clone `_`repository-URL`_  
  
  In the example shown here, _`repository-URL`_ designates a source repo. It can be a directory on the local system or a Git repo stored
  on a hosting service or other network-accessible server. The command creates a copy of the repo in the current working directory.

* **add**  

  Stages new files. To store changes in files that do not yet exist in the repo, you must first stage them. Use the **add** command to stage files. Staging files in this way adds the set of changes that will be permanently stored in the repo by the next **commit** command. 

  `git add .`

  The example command stages all changes in the current working
  directory, recursively. Alternatively, you can stage a specific file by using the
  file's name instead of the dot. Git looks for a .git file to determine if the current working directory is a Git repo. If the directory is not a Git repo, the `git` command displays an error message.

* **commit**  

  Stores staged changes to the Git repo.

  `git commit -m "Comment text"`

  The command shown here commits all changes in the currently-staged
  files, permanently storing them in the Git repo. When the changes
  are stored, Git also generates a cryptographic hash that identifies
  the commit, and it associates hash and the comment text given by the
  `-m` parameter with the stored commit. You can use Git tools at any
  later time to retrieve the committed files in exactly the same state
  they were in at the time of the commit.  
  
  The current working directory must be a Git repo. If it's not then
  Git prints an error message.

* **pull**  

  Copy recent changes from a remote repo to the local repo.
  
  `git pull`
  
  The example shown, executed from within a local Git repo, transfers
  recent changes from the repo's current **remote** and adds
  them to the current branch.  
  
  A branch's **remote** is a branch in another repo that Git
  associates with the local branch. For example, when you create a
  local repo by cloning a remote one, Git automatically copies the
  remote repo's "master" branch. After it's copied, Git creates an
  association between the "master" branch of the local copy and the
  "master" branch of the original. That configuration enables you to
  fetch new changes from the original repo by running the example
  command.  
  
  Git also supports creating associations between any local branch and
  any branch of any remote repo, but such more complicated
  associations are beyond the scope of this Learning Lab. For more
  information about managing local and remote repos, see "Working with
  Remotes" in [Pro
  Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Working-with-Remotes).

* **push**  

  Copy recent changes from the local repo to a remote repo.
  
  `git push origin master`

  The example shown, executed from within a local Git repo, pushes
  recent changes on the "master" branch to the associated branch of
  the remote repo named "origin".  
  
  This command should work exactly as it appears here in the most
  common cases. When you use Git to clone a repo, it automatically
  copies the source repo's "master" branch to create a local repo. It
  automatically creates an association between the local "master" and
  the remote one, and it automatically assigns the name "origin" to
  the source repo. In the usual case, therefore, you can clone a repo
  as shown in the **clone** item above, pull changes using the example
  command in the **pull** item, and push your changes using the
  example command in the **push** item. These example commands should
  normally work unchanged.
  
  In more complex cases, for example when you are working with more
  than one remote repo, or with more than one remote branch, you'll
  have to use more complex commands. Such cases are beyond the scope
  of this Learning Lab. For more information about managing local and
  remote repos, see "Working with Remotes" in [Pro
  Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Working-with-Remotes).

#### Next Step: Verify That Git is Installed
