# Step 2: Verify Your Git Installation

To verify that you have Git correctly installed:

1. Open a terminal.
2. Enter the command:

  ```shell
  $ git --version
  ```

The output should display the installed Git version. For example:

  ```shell
  git version 2.9.3
  ```

The version that your system reports may be different from this example. That's okay. This Learning Lab uses basic Git features that
are the same across Git versions.

The --version option is case sensitive. The `git` command does not recognize a capital V in `--version`.

If you see a message warning you that the `git` command was not found then Git is not properly installed on your system or the system can't find it.  For information about downloading and installing Git, see [the Git download
page](https://git-scm.com/downloads). Follow the instructions there and then repeat the steps above.

NOTE About Mac OSX

> If you are using a Mac OSX operating system, and you upgrade from OS X 10.11 "El Capitan" to 10.12: "Sierra", typing the git command in a terminal window might result in the following response:
>
>  ```shell
>  xcrun: error: invalid active developer path (/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools), 
>  missing xcrun at: /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools/usr/bin/xcrun
>  ```
>
> To fix the problem, do one of the following:
>
>  - Perform a software update in the App Store
>    OR
>  - Download and install the 'Command Line Tools (macOS sierra) for Xcode' package from Apple.

If you have installed Git and the commands above still fail, check to make sure that you added the Git commands to your system's `PATH` variable.

#### Next Step: Getting the Source Code Files with `git clone`
