# Step 4: Use `pull` to Update the Local Repo

Over time, the remote repository that you cloned to create a local copy is likely to change. Other contributors might add, remove, or edit
files to make fixes or add enhancements and new features. 

You can stay up to date with all the changes using the `git pull` command to copy the changes to your local clone.

1. Navigate to the cloned repository folder:

	```shell
	$ cd intro-to-programming-code-samples
	$ tree
	.
	├── README.md
	├── intro-to-python-parsing-json
	│   ├── json_parse_1.py
	│   ├── json_parse_1_sol.py
	│   ├── json_parse_2.py
	│   ├── json_parse_2_sol.py
	│   ├── json_parse_3.py
	│   ├── json_parse_3_sol.py
	│   └── json_parse_3_sol2.py
	├── intro-to-python-primer-1
	│   ├── concat.py
	│   ├── concat_sol.py
	│   ├── hello.py
	│   ├── helloworld.py
	│   ├── helloworldsol.py
	│   └── myworldsol.py
	└── intro-to-python-primer-2
	    ├── call_functions.py
	    ├── call_functions_sol.py
	    ├── first_data_types.py
  	    ├── my_data_types_sol.py
	    ├── nested_datatypes.py
	    ├── nested_datatypes_loops.py
	    ├── nested_datatypes_loops_sol.py
	    ├── nested_datatypes_loops_sol2.py
	    └── nested_datatypes_sol.py
	```

2. Run the pull command to copy updates:

  ```shell
  $ git pull
  ```

Git checks the remote repo to see if it contains any changes you don't have. If so, Git packs up the changes from the remote repo and copies them to your system. Git copies the changes to your local clone of the repo.

In this case it's not likely that anyone has changed the sample code;
after all, you only just cloned it! In that case&mdash;when there are
no new changes in the remote repo&mdash;Git prints

```shell
Already up-to-date.
```

In the unlikely event that someone has changed the sample code in the
few seconds since you cloned it, Git reports that it's packing up the
changes and transferring them to you. When it's done, your local clone
will have the latest changes from the remote repo.

Use the `git status` command to check the state of the local repo:
  
```shell
$ git status
```

Git displays the state of the files in the working directory and the staging area. It shows you if there are changes that are staged, and which files are not being tracked. The `git status` command is useful for revealing if you have changes that you haven't yet committed to the local (cloned) repo.

## Going Further

For more information about using Git to manage source code and
collaborate with other developers, check out some of the many online
guides and tutorials available:

* [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/)

* [Git Learning Labs at DevNet - Basics, Branching](https://learninglabs.cisco.com/labs/tags/git/page/1)

* [gittutorial - A tutorial introduction to Git](https://git-scm.com/docs/gittutorial)

* [GitHub Guides - Hello World!](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
